OBSDOCS-577: Docs bug fix for an incorrect API (#66373)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/distr-tracing-tempo-config-query-frontend.adoc

Query is a service that retrieves traces from storage and hosts the user interface to display them.

.Configuration parameters for the Querier
[options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Values |Default value

|`nodeSelector`
|NodeSelector is the simplest recommended form of node selection constraint.

> |type: object, additionalProperties: type: string

Author: ```suggestion
|type: object; additionalProperties: type: string
```

Reviewer: lgtm

|

|`replicas`
| Replicas represents the number of replicas to create for this component.

> | type: integer, format: int32

Author: ```suggestion
| type: integer; format: int32
```

Reviewer: lgtm

|

|`tolerations`
|Tolerations defines component specific pod tolerations.

> |type: array, x-kubernetes-list-type: atomic

Author: ```suggestion
|type: array; x-kubernetes-list-type: atomic
```

|

|`Tolerations` (items)

> |The pod this Toleration is attached to tolerates any taint that matches the triple <key, value, effect> using the matching operator <operator>.

Author: ```suggestion
|The pod this toleration is attached to tolerates any taint that matches the triple <key, value, effect> using the matching operator <operator>.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The pod to which the tolerations are attached to tolerates any taint that matches the triple <key, value, effect> using the matching operator <operator>.
```

Switched from singular to plural form, as this property defines a list of tolerations.

> |The pod to which the toleration is attached to tolerates any taint that matches the triple <key, value, effect> using the matching operator <operator>.

Author: ```suggestion
|The pod to which the tolerations are attached to tolerates any taint that matches the triple <key, value, effect> using the matching operator <operator>.
```

> |The pod to which the tolerations are attached to tolerates any taint that matches the triple <key, value, effect> using the matching operator <operator>.

Author: ```suggestion
|The pod to which the tolerations are attached to tolerates any taint that matches the triple <key, value, effect> using the matching operator <operator>. See the **Additional resources** for taints and tolerations in OpenShift.
```

|type: object
|

> |`effect`

Reviewer: The `querier` component has a field `tolerations`, which contains a list of `Toleration`, which have `effect` etc.: https://github.com/grafana/tempo-operator/pull/711/files#diff-e7108bb7c82881b86a832ed14cefa0297fc0d94c44f4ea0029762334e68fe272R139-R148

With the current style it looks like `effect` is a property on `querier`, but that's wrong. It is a property of the `Toleration` item inside the `tolerations` list.

Author: What about https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/66373/files#r1441598504?

Author: Thank you for clarifying this. Please take a looking at my open suggestions above and below.

> | Effect indicates the taint effect to match. Empty means match all taint effects. When specified, allowed values are NoSchedule, PreferNoSchedule, and NoExecute.

Author: ```suggestion
| Effect is a property of `querier.tolerations.Toleration` and  indicates the taint effect to match. Empty means match all taint effects. When specified, allowed values are NoSchedule, PreferNoSchedule, and NoExecute.
```

> | Effect indicates the taint effect to match. Empty means match all taint effects. When specified, allowed values are NoSchedule, PreferNoSchedule, and NoExecute.

Author: ```suggestion
| Effect indicates the taint effect to match for a Toleration item. Empty means match all taint effects. When specified, allowed values are NoSchedule, PreferNoSchedule, and NoExecute.
```

|type: string
|

|`key`

> |Key is the taint key that the toleration applies to. Empty means match all taint keys. If the key is empty, operator must be Exists; this combination means to match all values and all keys.

Author: ```suggestion
|Key is the taint key that the toleration applies to. Empty means match all taint keys. If the key is empty, the value for `operator` must be `Exists`; this combination means to match all values and all keys.
```

Reviewer: /me confused, I thought we remove the `key` field (and all other properties of the `toleration`)?
(it's removed in the next suggestion)

Author: It's just an older suggestion.

|type: string
|

|`operator`

> |Operator represents a key's relationship to the value. Valid operators are Exists and Equal. Defaults to Equal. Exists is equivalent to wildcard for value, so that a pod can tolerate all taints of a particular category.

Author: ```suggestion
|Operator represents a key's relationship to the value for a toleration. Valid operators are Exists and Equal. Defaults to Equal. Exists is equivalent to wildcard for value, so that a pod can tolerate all taints of a particular category.
```

Reviewer: Sounds good. What do you think about removing all toleration properties (key, value, effect and operator) and adding a link from the `tolerations` property (the list of tolerations) to https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/nodes/scheduling/nodes-scheduler-taints-tolerations.html for an in-depth explanation of them?

Author: Thank you for the suggestion. Unfortunately, the repo rules don't allow me to link there from inside a module. However, WDYT (WIP).

Reviewer 2: Yes, sounds good to me. We can probably add a line to refer to the additional resources.

> |`effect`
> | Effect indicates the taint effect to match for the toleration. Empty means match all taint effects. When specified, allowed values are NoSchedule, PreferNoSchedule, and NoExecute.
> |type: string
> |
> 
> |`key`
> |Key is the taint key that the toleration applies to. Empty means match all taint keys. If the key is empty, operator must be Exists; this combination means to match all values and all keys.
> |type: string
> |
> 
> |`operator`
> |Operator represents a key's relationship to the value. Valid operators are Exists and Equal. Defaults to Equal. Exists is equivalent to wildcard for value, so that a pod can tolerate all taints of a particular category.
> |type: string
> |

Author: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: :+1:

|`tolerationSeconds`
|TolerationSeconds represents the period of time the toleration (which must be of effect NoExecute, otherwise this field is ignored) tolerates the taint. By default, it is not set, which means tolerate the taint forever (do not evict). Zero and negative values will be treated as 0 (evict immediately) by the system.
|type: integer, format: int64
|

|`value`
|Value is the taint value the toleration matches to. If the operator is Exists, the value should be empty, otherwise just a regular string.
|type: string
|

|===

.Configuration parameters for the Query Frontend
[options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Values |Default value

|`component`

> |TempoComponentSpec is embedded to extend this definition with further options. Currently, there is no way to inline this field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|TempoComponentSpec is embedded to extend this definition with further options.
```

|type: object
|

|`nodeSelector` (inside component)
|NodeSelector is the simplest recommended form of node selection constraint.
|type: object, additionalProperties: type: string
|

|`replicas` (inside component)
|Replicas represents the number of replicas to create for this component.
|type: integer, format: int32
|

|`tolerations` (inside component)
|Tolerations defines component specific pod tolerations.
|type: array, x-kubernetes-list-type: atomic
|

|`Tolerations` (items, inside component)
|The pod this Toleration is attached to tolerates any taint that matches the triple <key, value, effect> using the matching operator <operator>.
|type: object
|

> |`effect` (inside component)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`effect` (inside component.tolerations[x])
```

I'm not sure what's the best way to show hierarchical types in this linear table (see comment above).

Author: I can add a multi-line code block in this cell (I can reformat this table if needed).
What's the typical YAML view of this?

|type: string
|

|`key` (inside component)
|Key is the taint key that the toleration applies to. Empty means match all taint keys. If the key is empty, operator must be Exists; this combination means to match all values and all keys.
|type: string
|

|`operator` (inside component)
|Operator represents a key's relationship to the value. Valid operators are Exists and Equal. Defaults to Equal. Exists is equivalent to wildcard for value, so that a pod can tolerate all taints of a particular category.
|type: string
|

|`tolerationSeconds` (inside component)
|TolerationSeconds represents the period of time the toleration (which must be of effect NoExecute, otherwise this field is ignored) tolerates the taint. By default, it is not set, which means tolerate the taint forever (do not evict). Zero and negative values will be treated as 0 (evict immediately) by the system.
|type: integer, format: int64
|

|`value` (inside component)
|Value is the taint value the toleration matches to. If the operator is Exists, the value should be empty, otherwise just a regular string.
|type: string
|

|`jaegerQuery`
|JaegerQuerySpec defines Jaeger Query specific options.
|
|

> |`enabled`

Reviewer: This is a property of `jaegerQuery`

Author: Like this?
https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/66373/files#r1441549271

> |Enabled is used to define if Jaeger Query component should be created.

Author: ```suggestion
|Enabled is a property of `jaegerQuery` that defines if Jaeger Query component is to be created.
```

|type: boolean
|

|`ingress`
|Ingress defines Jaeger Query Ingress options.
|type: object
|

|`annotations`
|Annotations defines the annotations of the Ingress object.
|type: object, additionalProperties: type: string
|

|`host`
|Host defines the hostname of the Ingress object.
|type: string
|

|`ingressClassName`

> |IngressClassName is the name of an IngressClass cluster resource. Ingress controller implementations use this field to know whether they should be serving this Ingress resource.

Author: ```suggestion
|IngressClassName is the name of an IngressClass cluster resource. This field defines whether Ingress controller implementations are to serve this Ingress resource.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|IngressClassName is the name of an IngressClass cluster resource. This field defines which Ingress controller serves this Ingress resource.
```

There can be multiple ingress controllers in the cluster, and this field defines which of these should handle this ingress.

Author: Thank you. Applying.

|type: string
|

|`route`
|Route defines OpenShift Route specific options.
|type: object
|

|`termination`

> |Termination specifies the termination type. By default "edge" is used.

Author: ```suggestion
|Termination specifies the termination type. By default `"edge"` is used.
```

Reviewer: I'd remove the `"`, otherwise lgtm.

|type: string (enum: insecure, edge, passthrough, reencrypt)
|

|`type`

> |Type defines the type of Ingress for the Jaeger Query UI. Currently ingress, route, and none are supported.

Author: ```suggestion
|Type defines the type of Ingress for the Jaeger Query UI. Currently, `ingress`, `route`, and `none` are supported.
```

Reviewer: lgtm :+1:

.Sample Query configuration
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1

Author: apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: simplest
spec:
  storage:
    secret:
      name: minio
      type: s3
  storageSize: 200M
  resources:
    total:
      limits:
        memory: 2Gi
        cpu: 2000m
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
